doc: nRF54H20_migration_2.7: Add Coremark migration guide (#1)
alstrzebonski/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/migration/nRF54H20_migration_2.7/migration_guide_2.4.99-cs3_to_2.7_application.rst

     The previously used SOC1-based board files have been removed.

CoreMark
--------

> Several changes has been made to migrate the CoreMark sample from the nRF54 customer sampling release v2.4.99-cs3 to |NCS| v2.7.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several changes have been made from the nRF54 customer sampling release v2.4.99-cs3:
```

Author: I actually don't describe all changes that have been made. I just describe changes related to migration.

Reviewer: Ok, didn't understand what you wanted to say :)

Still this sentence is somehow bad. The problem is with phase \"migration". In this guide as far as my understanding goes, it means the actions needed by customer to preform. But it can also mean work conducted by us while moving it from one repository to another. I would avoid using it in this guide in second meaning.

Author: I use it in the 2nd meaning, but if you would like to phrase it differently then propose how would you see it,

Author: or we can wait for tech writers

Reviewer: Didn't understood correctly it is good as it is.

Reviewer 2: Agree with Jan, you should list the actions needed from the customer to migrate from earlier NCS version to 2.7.0. Not listing all changes made.

Author: I've listed the changes that needed to be done to port app from nrf-next to main nrf. I didn't mention the changes that were made due to other reasons.

* The sample has been moved from the Zephyr repository to the nRF Connect SDK repository.
* Build system has been aligned to the Hardware Model v2.
  The ``SB_CONFIG_IMAGE_2_BOARD`` and ``SB_CONFIG_IMAGE_3_BOARD`` Kconfig options have been replaced with the ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN`` and ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN`` Kconfig options.

>   New Kconfig options clearly indicates on which cores the sample will be run.

Reviewer: clearly -> more clearly

  See the ``sysbuild.cmake`` file to find out how these options are used to determine the board target.
* Due to the fact, that the |NCS| v2.7.0 does not support STM logging for the nRF54, the STM logging has been removed from the CoreMark sample.
  The sample now uses usual UART logging which allows for sending logs from only one core per UART instance.
  The nRF54 has only two UART instances, so the sample now can be run on two cores at most.
  The sample is always run on application core and depending on configuration can be run on either the radio core or the PPR core.
  See the ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN`` and ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN`` Kconfig options for more details.
* The DTS overlays has been aligned to the |NCS| v2.7.0.

> * The ``system_nrf.h`` library has been included explicitly in the ``main.c`` file to be able to print the CPU frequency.

Reviewer: file to be able to print the CPU frequency. ->  file to print the CPU frequency.

> * The ``SB_CONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER`` Kconfig option has been disabled in the ``sysbuild.conf`` file to avoid using the partition manager.

Reviewer: TBH we don't know why we have to disable it. I wouldn't mention here.

Author: I think it's important to mention especially those unintuitive stuff that you have to do to migrate the application.

Reviewer: Ok, then IMO we should say sth more ambiguous like:
 to avoid using the partition manager. -> to avoid conflicts with partition manager.

* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option has been made promptless and enabled for the PPR core.

>   The PPR core is unable to access buttons and thus the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option must be enabled for this core to be able to run the benchmark.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The PPR core is currently unable to access buttons and thus the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option must be enabled for this core to be able to run the benchmark.
```

* To make the Coremark sample run on the PPR core, following build time arguments must be passed to the build system:
  ``-DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN=n -DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN=y -Dcoremark_SNIPPET=nordic-ppr-xip``.

>   The ``coremark_SNIPPET`` argument needs to be set to make the application core start the PPR core.

Reviewer: Maybe add here information that you can also build it from sample.yaml using -T sample.benchmark.coremark_ppr_xip .

     The previously used SOC1-based board files have been removed.

CoreMark
--------

> 

Reviewer 3: Please add toggle for this section like others:

.. toggle::

> Several changes have been made to migrate the CoreMark sample from the nRF54 customer sampling release v2.4.99-cs3 to |NCS| v2.7.0:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Several changes have been made to migrate the :ref:`coremark_sample` sample from the nRF54 customer sampling release v2.4.99-cs3 to |NCS| v2.7.0:
```

> * The sample has been moved from the Zephyr repository to the nRF Connect SDK repository.

Reviewer 4: Please indicate the path

```suggestion
* The sample has been moved from the `<ncs_path>/zephyr/samples/benchmarks/coremark` folder in the Zephyr repository to the following folder `<ncs_path>/nrf/samples/benchmarks/coremark` in the main |NCS| repository.
```

> * The sample has been moved from the :file:`<ncs_path>/zephyr/samples/benchmarks/coremark` folder in the Zephyr repository to the following folder :file:`<ncs_path>/nrf/samples/benchmarks/coremark` in the main |NCS| repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The sample has been moved from the :file:`<ncs_path>/zephyr/samples/benchmarks/coremark` folder in the Zephyr repository to the :file:`<ncs_path>/nrf/samples/benchmarks/coremark` folder in the main |NCS| repository.
```

> * Build system has been aligned to the Hardware Model v2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The build system has been aligned to the hardware model v2.
```

  The ``SB_CONFIG_IMAGE_2_BOARD`` and ``SB_CONFIG_IMAGE_3_BOARD`` Kconfig options have been replaced with the ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN`` and ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN`` Kconfig options.

>   New Kconfig options more clearly indicates on which cores the sample will be run.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  New Kconfig options more clearly indicate on which cores the sample will be run.
```

>   New Kconfig options more clearly indicate on which cores the sample will be run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The new Kconfig options more clearly indicate on which cores the sample will be run.
```

  See the :file:`sysbuild.cmake` file to find out how these options are used to determine the board target.

> * Due to the fact, that the |NCS| v2.7.0 does not support STM logging for the nRF54, the STM logging has been removed from the CoreMark sample.

Reviewer 4: Is STM referred to in NCS documentation as STM? It would be good to check if we refer to this term correctly

CoreSight STM?

Author: I found ARM Coresight System Trace Macrocell (STM) in `nrf/doc/nrf/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_logging.rst`

> * Due to the fact, that the |NCS| v2.7.0 does not support ARM Coresight System Trace Macrocell (STM) logging for the nRF54, the STM logging has been removed from the CoreMark sample.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Because the |NCS| v2.7.0 does not support ARM Coresight System Trace Macrocell (STM) logging for the nRF54 device, STM logging has been removed from the sample.
```

>   The sample now uses usual UART logging that allows for sending logs from only one core for each UART instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The sample now uses usual UART logging, which allows for sending logs from only one core for each UART instance.
```

>   The sample now uses usual UART logging which allows for sending logs from only one core per UART instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The sample now uses usual UART logging that allows for sending logs from only one core for each UART instance.
```

>   The nRF54 has only two UART instances, so the sample now can be run on two cores at most.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The nRF54 device has only two UART instances, so the sample now can be run on two cores at most.
```

>   The nRF54 device has only two UART instances, so the sample now can be run on two cores at most.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The nRF54 device has only two UART instances, so the sample can now be run on two cores at most.
```

  The sample is always run on application core and depending on configuration can be run on either the radio core or the PPR core.
  See the ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN`` and ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN`` Kconfig options for more details.

> * The DTS overlays has been aligned to the |NCS| v2.7.0.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The DTS overlays have been aligned to the |NCS| v2.7.0.
```

>   The sample is always run on application core and depending on configuration can be run on either the radio core or the PPR core.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The sample is always run on the application core, and depending on configuration, it can be run on either the radio core or the PPR core.
```

* The :file:`system_nrf.h` library has been included explicitly in the :file:`main.c` file to print the CPU frequency.
* The ``SB_CONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER`` Kconfig option has been disabled in the :file:`sysbuild.conf` file to avoid using the partition manager.
* The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option has been made promptless and enabled for the PPR core.
  The PPR core is currently unable to access buttons and thus the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option must be enabled for this core to be able to run the benchmark.

> * To make the Coremark sample run on the PPR core, following build time arguments must be passed to the build system:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* To make the Coremark sample run on the PPR core, the following build-time arguments must be passed to the build system:
```

>   The PPR core is currently unable to access buttons and thus the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option must be enabled for this core to be able to run the benchmark.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Currently, the PPR core does not have access to buttons and thus, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option must be enabled for this core to run the benchmark.
```

> * To make the Coremark sample run on the PPR core, the following build-time arguments must be passed to the build system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To make the sample run on the PPR core, pass the following build-time arguments to the build system:
```

> * To make the sample run on the PPR core, pass the following build-time arguments to the build system:
>   ``-DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN=n -DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN=y -Dcoremark_SNIPPET=nordic-ppr-xip``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* To make the sample run on the PPR core, pass the ``-DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN=n -DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN=y -Dcoremark_SNIPPET=nordic-ppr-xip`` build-time arguments to the build system.
```

  The ``coremark_SNIPPET`` argument needs to be set to make the application core start the PPR core.

>   Alternatively, instead of adding those arguments manually, the sample can be built from the :file:`sample.yaml` file using following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Alternatively, instead of adding those arguments manually, the sample can be built from the :file:`sample.yaml` file using the following command:
```

>   The ``coremark_SNIPPET`` argument needs to be set to make the application core start the PPR core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Set the ``coremark_SNIPPET`` argument to make the application core start the PPR core.
```

Author: Maybe `The ``coremark_SNIPPET`` argument is set to make the application core start the PPR core.`? It's written to explain the `Dcoremark_SNIPPET=nordic-ppr-xip` from line 98. I don't want it to sound like an additional step.

>   Alternatively, instead of adding those arguments manually, the sample can be built from the :file:`sample.yaml` file using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Alternatively, you can build the sample from the :file:`sample.yaml` file using the following command:
```

>   Alternatively, you can build the sample from the :file:`sample.yaml` file using the following command:
>   .. code-block:: console
> 
>     west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T sample.benchmark.coremark_ppr_xip .

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Alternatively, you can build the sample from the :file:`sample.yaml` file using the following command:
  
  .. code-block:: console
     
      west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T sample.benchmark.coremark_ppr_xip .
```
Please check the alignment of the code-block.

       The sample now uses usual UART logging, which allows for sending logs from only one core for each UART instance.
       The nRF54 device has only two UART instances, so the sample can now be run on two cores at most.
       The sample is always run on the application core, and depending on configuration, it can be run on either the radio core or the PPR core.
       See the ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN`` and ``SB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN`` Kconfig options for more details.
     * The DTS overlays have been aligned to the |NCS| v2.7.0.
     * The :file:`system_nrf.h` library has been included explicitly in the :file:`main.c` file to print the CPU frequency.
     * The ``SB_CONFIG_PARTITION_MANAGER`` Kconfig option has been disabled in the :file:`sysbuild.conf` file to avoid conflicts with the Partition Manager.
     * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option has been made promptless and enabled for the PPR core.
       Currently, the PPR core does not have access to buttons and thus, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_MODE_FLASH_AND_RUN` Kconfig option must be enabled for this core to run the benchmark.

>      * To make the sample run on the PPR core, pass the ``-DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN=n -DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN=y -Dcoremark_SNIPPET=nordic-ppr-xip`` build-time arguments to the build system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
     * To make the sample run on the PPR core, pass the ``-DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN=n -DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN=y -Dcoremark_SNIPPET=nordic-ppr`` build-time arguments to the build system.
```

>      * To make the sample run on the PPR core, pass the ``-DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN=n -DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN=y -Dcoremark_SNIPPET=nordic-ppr-xip`` build-time arguments to the build system.

Reviewer 4: As I understand it, the PPR core was run in the XIP mode (from MRAM) in the old repository. You can add this extra point to reflect this difference in configuration.

```suggestion
     * PPR core is now run from RAM for better CPU performance.
       This configuration differs from the one in the nRF54 customer sampling release v2.4.99-cs3, where the PPR core is run from MRAM with the execution in place (XIP) method.
     * To make the sample run on the PPR core, pass the ``-DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUNET_RUN=n -DSB_CONFIG_APP_CPUPPR_RUN=y -Dcoremark_SNIPPET=nordic-ppr-xip`` build-time arguments to the build system.
```

Reviewer: * PPR core is now run from PPR TCM RAM for better CPU performance.

       The ``coremark_SNIPPET`` argument is set to make the application core start the PPR core.
       Alternatively, you can build the sample from the :file:`sample.yaml` file using the following command:

       .. code-block:: console

>           west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T sample.benchmark.coremark_ppr_xip .

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
          west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -T sample.benchmark.coremark_ppr .
```
